stolostron/backlog#20719 add Sub uninstall (#3345)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: services/submariner/submariner_uninstall.adoc

#uninstalling-submariner-cli]
== Command-line method  

To uninstall Submariner by using the command line, complete the following steps:

. Locate the clusters that contain the Submariner add-on by entering the following command:
+
----
oc get resource submariner-addon -n open-cluster-management
----

. Run a command similar to the following example to uninstall Submariner from the cluster:
+
----
oc delete resource submariner-addon -n <CLUSTER_NAME>
----
+
Replace `CLUSTER_NAME` with the name of the cluster.

. Confirm that you want to remove all of the Submariner components from the cluster. 

. Repeat the steps for each cluster to remove Submariner.

If the version of Submariner that you are removing is earlier than version 0.12, continue with xref:../services/submariner/submariner_uninstall.adoc##uninstalling-submariner-manual[Manual removal steps for early version of Submariner]. If the Submariner version is 0.12, or later, Submariner is removed. 

**Important:** Verify that all of the cloud resources are removed from the cloud provider to avoid additional charges by your cloud provider.

[#uninstalling-submariner-manual]
== Manual method

> When uninstalling versions of Submariner that are earlier than version 0.12, you must complete the additional steps that are provided in the  https://submariner.io/operations/cleanup/[Uninstalling Submariner] topic in the Submariner documentation.  

Reviewer: Since you provide the Submariner doc link anyway, why not just say to follow sections 5-8 instead of copying/duplicating the content here?

```suggestion
When uninstalling versions of Submariner that are earlier than version 0.12, you must complete the additional steps, 5-8, that are provided in the  https://submariner.io/operations/cleanup/#manual-uninstall/[Manual Uninstall] section in the Submariner documentation.  
```

Author: @tpantelis : Reasonable point. I was leaning in that direction, but wanted to see if it made more sense to have it all conveniently located in the docs. How often do you think those steps will change?

Reviewer: They probably won't change b/c they apply to older versions which won't change. We might even remove the manual steps at some point. In fact, since I believe we're GA'ing submariner with ACM 2.5 and submariner 0.12, do we even need to mention manual steps prior to 0.12? @dfarrell07.  Either way, I think it's unlikely any user will need to follow these steps thus I think it's fine to just point to the submariner docs.

Author: Sounds good. Certainly makes maintenance easier, having it in one place. Thanks!

[#uninstalling-submariner]
= Uninstalling Submariner

> You can uninstall the Submariner components from your clusters. Select from the three methods that you can use based on your preference and the version of Submariner that you are removing. You can use the {product-title} console if you like the console. If you prefer a command-line removal, you can also use the automatic or manual method for uninstalling the Submariner components, depending on the version of Submariner that you are uninstalling. The automatic method is only available for version 0.12, and later, and is best practice for removing those versions of Submariner. Use the manual method to remove versions before version 0.12. 

Reviewer: Most of the Submariner components in all versions are removed as a result of deleting the Submariner add-on component. Prior to 0.12 some data plane remnants (eg IP table chains/rules et al) were left behind but those are now automatically cleaned up in 0.12 .

```suggestion
You can uninstall the Submariner components from your clusters using the {product-title} console or the command-line if that is preferred. For Submariner versions prior to 0.12, additional steps are needed to completely remove all data plane components.
```

[#uninstalling-submariner-console]
== Console method 

To uninstall Submariner from a cluster by using the {product-title-short} console, complete the following steps:

. From the {product-title-short} console, select *Infrastructure* > *Clusters*.

. Select the _Cluster sets_ tab to view a list of cluster sets. 

. Select the cluster set that contains the clusters from which you want to remove the Submariner components. 

. Select the *Submariner Add-ons* tab to view the clusters in the cluster set that have Submariner deployed. 

. In the _Actions_ menu for the cluster that you want to uninstall Submariner, select *Uninstall Submariner*. 

. Repeat those steps for other clusters from which you are removing Submariner.

Submariner is removed from the clusters.

**Important:** Verify that all of the cloud resources are removed from the cloud provider to avoid additional charges by your cloud provider.   

#uninstalling-submariner-automatic]

> == Automatic method  

Reviewer: The console method is also automatic.

```suggestion
== Command-line method  
```

To uninstall Submariner version 0.12, or later, complete the following steps:

. Ensure that you have the `subctl` tool installed. See link:../services/submariner.adoc#submariner-subctl[subctl command utility] for information about installing the `subctl` command utility.

. Run a command similar to the following example to uninstall Submariner from the cluster:
+
----
subctl uninstall --kubeconfig <output/kubeconfigs/cluster-1>
----
+
Replace `output/kubeconfigs/cluster-1` with the path to the `kubeconfig` files for your cluster named `cluster-1`.

> . Confirm that you want to remove all of the Submariner components from the cluster. 

Reviewer: `subctl uninstall` does not need to be run. Everything that this command does is also done by removing/deleting the Submariner add-on. So this section should describe how to manually delete the add-on resource via CLI. However I'm not sure if these docs instruct users to use `kubectl` or the Openshift CLI (`oc` I believe).

. Repeat the steps for each cluster to remove Submariner.

After running those steps on each cluster, Submariner is removed. 

**Important:** Verify that all of the cloud resources are removed from the cloud provider to avoid additional charges by your cloud provider.

[#uninstalling-submariner-manual]
== Manual method

When uninstalling versions of Submariner that are versions before version 0.12, you must use the manual method. To uninstall using the manual method, complete the procedure that is described in https://submariner.io/operations/cleanup/[Uninstalling Submariner] in the Submariner documentation.  

Your Submariner components are removed from the cluster. 

> **Important:** Verify that all of the cloud resources are removed from the cloud provider to avoid additional charges by your cloud provider.

Reviewer: This section should describe the manual steps needed to do the additional cleanup prior to 0.12 after performing the Submariner add-on removal above. That is documented specifically here: https://submariner.io/operations/cleanup/#manual-uninstall, although really only sections 5-9 need to be preformed as 1-4 are done as part of the Submariner add-on removal.

[#uninstalling-submariner]
= Uninstalling Submariner

You can uninstall the Submariner components from your clusters using the {product-title} console or the command-line. For Submariner versions earlier than 0.12, additional steps are needed to completely remove all data plane components.

[#uninstalling-submariner-console]
== Console method 

To uninstall Submariner from a cluster by using the {product-title-short} console, complete the following steps:

. From the {product-title-short} console navigation, select *Infrastructure* > *Clusters*, and select the _Cluster sets_ tab.

. Select the cluster set that contains the clusters from which you want to remove the Submariner components. 

. Select the *Submariner Add-ons* tab to view the clusters in the cluster set that have Submariner deployed. 

. In the _Actions_ menu for the cluster that you want to uninstall Submariner, select *Uninstall Submariner*. 

. Repeat those steps for other clusters from which you are removing Submariner.

Submariner is removed from the clusters.

> **Important:** Verify that all of the cloud resources are removed from the cloud provider to avoid additional charges by your cloud provider.   

Reviewer 2: Should we add some details about what exactly to verify is uninstalled and how to verify it? There are three references like this in this PR, maybe all of them should refer to common "Uninstall verification" docs.

Author: @dfarrell07 We could add a section to the end of this that lists the steps to verify this.

#uninstalling-submariner-cli]
== Command-line method  

> To uninstall Submariner version 0.12, or later, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: This applies to all versions.

. Locate the clusters that contain the Submariner add-on by entering the following command:
+
----
oc get resource submariner-addon -n open-cluster-management
----

. Run a command similar to the following example to uninstall Submariner from the cluster:
+
----
oc delete resource submariner-addon -n <CLUSTER_NAME>
----
+

> Replace `CLUSTER_NAME` with the name of the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replace `<CLUSTER_NAME>` with the name of the cluster.
```

Right? Otherwise I could imagine people using `<my-cluster>` instead of `my-cluster`.

Author: Good question. The convention that we use throughout the rest of the docs is: If a variable is in example font already (such as in the command), we add the <> for setting it apart. If a variable is outside of example font (as in the sentence about what to use in place of the variable), we only include it in the example font to set it apart. We are ok there.
